
LADY CADOGAN'S

Illustrated Games of Solitaire or Patience



_NEW REVISED EDITION_


INCLUDING American Games



"How poor are they that have not patience."--OTHELLO.

_Patientia vincit._



PHILADELPHIA
DAVID McKAY COMPANY
Washington Square

Copyright, 1914, by DAVID MCKAY COMPANY

Printed in United States of America




[Transcriber's Note: This alphabetical list of the games was produced
for the convenience of the reader and is not contained in the original
text.]


                              CONTENTS

ANNA                                       THE FIFTEEN
BABETTE                                    THE FISH-BONE
CÃ†SAR                                      THE FLOWER-GARDEN
CANFIELD OR KLONDIKE                       THE FOUR CORNERS
FORTRESS                                   THE FOURTEENTH
GENERAL SEDGEWICK                          THE GREAT THIRTEEN
LA BELLE LUCIE                             THE HEMISPHERES
LA NIVERNAISE                              THE HERRING-BONE
LIGHT AND SHADE                            THE KINGS
MARGARETHE                                 THE LABYRINTH
MOUNT OLYMPUS                              THE "LOUIS" PATIENCE
NAPOLEON AT ST. HELENA                     THE MILL
NAPOLEON'S SQUARE                          THE NATION
NESTOR                                     THE OLGA
RED AND BLACK                              THE QUEENS
SLY                                        THE SALIC LAW
SPENSER'S FAIRIE QUEEN                     THE SHAH
THE BESIEGED CITY                          THE SQUARE
THE BLOCKADE                               THE SULTAN
THE CARPET                                 THE TERRACE
THE CLOCK                                  THE WHEEL
THE CONGRESS                               THE ZODIAC
THE CONSTITUTION                           TWO RINGS
THE EMPRESS OF INDIA




EXPLANATION OF THE TABLEAUX


The blank spaces show where the foundation cards should be played
during the deal.


EXPLANATION OF TERMS

_Available cards._ Those that are not "blocked" by other cards, _i.e._,
not forbidden by the particular rules of each game, to be used.

_Released cards._ Those which, by the removal of the cards that blocked
them, have now become available.

_Suitable cards._ Those whose value and suit fit them to be played or
placed in the tableaux.

_Foundation cards._ Those on which the Patience is formed. These are
generally aces and kings.

_Marriage._ The placing a card _of the same suit_ on the next one above
or below it in value. Any number may be placed on each other in this
way.

_Sequence._ The regular succession of cards ascending from ace to king,
or descending from king to ace; a sequence need not be of one suit.

_Value._ The figures of the court cards, and the number of points of
the minor ones.

_Suit._ Either hearts, spades, diamonds, or clubs.

_Lane._ An empty space in the tableau, which has been formed by the
removal of an entire row of cards.

_Talon._ Cards which, being unsuitable at the moment, are laid aside in
one or more packets till they can come into use.

_To play cards._ The _placing them on the foundations_ in
contradistinction to placing them elsewhere.

_Re-deals._ These are always in addition to the original deal.




[Illustration: LA BELLE LUCIE.]




LA BELLE LUCIE

One Entire Pack of Cards


RULES

 I. The uppermost card of each packet is alone available, until by its
removal it releases the one beneath.

II. The foundations must follow suit.


PLAY

Deal out the entire pack in packets of three cards dealt together and
placed as in tableau. The last packet, however, will contain but one
card.

The four aces form the foundation cards, and are to ascend in sequence
to kings.

Having placed the tableau, take any aces that may appear on the surface
of the packets and play them in their allotted spaces, and upon them
any other suitable cards, subject to Rule I.

When all available cards have been played, you proceed to release
others, by forming marriages in a descending line on the tableau; but
great care is requisite, lest in releasing one card another still more
necessary to success should be blocked. The whole tableau should be
carefully examined, and the combinations arranged so as to release the
greatest number of suitable cards.

When this has been done, and there are no more available cards to play,
the entire tableau may be taken up, shuffled and re-dealt (if necessary
twice), then played again as before.

This game can also be played with two packs, the eight aces forming the
foundation cards, and double the number of packets being dealt for the
tableau. It is then called "THE HOUSE IN THE WOOD."

There is also another way of playing it with two packs. The foundation
cards to be four aces, and four kings of different suits, and marriages
made both in ascending and descending lines. The name of this game is
"THE HOUSE ON THE HILL."




[Illustration: NAPOLEON AT ST. HELENA.]




NAPOLEON AT ST. HELENA

Two Entire Packs of Cards


RULES

 I. Only cards in the lowest row are available, until a card in any
other row is released by the removal of those below it, the principle
being that _no card can be used that has another below it_.

II. The foundations must follow suit.


PLAY

Deal out from left to right four rows of ten cards.

The eight aces, when they can be placed, form the foundation cards, and
are to ascend in sequence to kings.

Should any aces appear in the lowest row, play them in their allotted
spaces, and upon them any suitable cards to continue the foundations
(Rule I).

You must now examine the tableau and endeavor by forming marriages (in
descending line, and always subject to Rule I) to release other
suitable cards. This, however, must be done with care, lest a sequence
in a lower row may block a card above it which is much wanted, and
might soon have been released.

If by these changes you can make a vacancy in the uppermost row (thus
forming a perpendicular lane), it is of the greatest use. The vacancy
may be refilled with any available card from the tableau or from the
talon, but you are not obliged to refill it until a favorable
opportunity occurs.

_Note._--Some players only allow the vacancy to be filled from the
talon.

The card so placed has all the privileges of the original card whose
place it fills, and is treated in the same manner.

When there are no more available cards to play, proceed to deal out the
remainder of the pack, turning the cards one by one, playing all
suitable ones on the foundations, or placing them on the sequences of
the tableau. The cards that cannot be so employed are laid aside in one
packet, forming the talon.

There is no re-deal.




[Illustration: THE FIFTEEN.]




THE FIFTEEN

Two Entire Packs of Cards


RULES

 I. Only cards in the seventh or lowest row are available, until by
their removal those above them are released. _No card can at any time
be used that has any other below it._

_Note._--There is one exception to this rule, in case the game cannot
be opened. See below.

II. Each foundation must follow suit.


PLAY

Deal out the entire pack from left to right in horizontal rows, fifteen
cards in each, excepting the last one, which can only contain fourteen.
Each row should partly cover over the preceding one; four aces and four
kings form the foundation cards, the aces ascending in sequence to
kings, the kings descending in sequence to aces. _When the deal is
complete_, if any foundation cards should appear in the lowest row
(Rule I), play them at once on the spaces reserved, and also any other
suitable cards--then marry, both in ascending and in descending lines,
subject to Rule I; but if, after these changes, no foundation card is
available, so that the patience cannot even begin, you may withdraw
from the sixth row one ace and one king, if any are to be found (see
note to Rule I), immediately filling the spaces so made with the cards
below which had previously blocked them. If even this resource is
unavailing, the patience has already failed, there being no re-deal,
and no further infringement of rules allowed.

When one or more foundations are established, examine the tableau
carefully, marry all available cards, and endeavor by these changes to
release the greatest number of suitable cards for the foundations, and
to open out one or more perpendicular lanes. These are of the greatest
use; you may select any available card and place it at the top of the
lane, and below it any others in sequence of the same suit, each card
partly concealing the preceding one, as in the original deal.

You may also use the lane for reversing any sequences previously made.
Thus, supposing there is a sequence beginning with a ten and ending
with a three (the ten being required for one of the foundations), place
the three at the top of the lane, the other cards following until the
ten becomes the lowest or available card.

In theory this patience is simple, but it is very difficult to play.
The combinations are endless, from the constant reversing of sequences,
and require great attention. As the success principally depends on the
lanes, it is more prudent, when you have only one, not to refill it
until by some fresh combination you can open out another one.

There is no re-deal.




[Illustration: THE SALIC LAW.]




THE SALIC LAW

Two Entire Packs of Cards


RULES

 I. Only the cards on the surface of the king packets are available,
until their removal as usual releases those beneath, but all the cards
in each packet may be examined.

II. The foundations do not follow suit.


PLAY

Take from the pack and place one king to begin the line of eight kings,
that are to be successively placed in a horizontal row as they appear
in the deal. On this first king you place all the cards as you deal
them until the next king appears. You now place the cards as you deal
them upon this second king, and you continue thus to deal out the whole
pack, always heaping upon the last king that has appeared all the cards
as they are dealt.

The eight aces are to form the foundation cards, and are to ascend in
sequence to knaves (Rule II). When in the course of the deal any aces
appear, they are to be immediately placed in a line above the king
packets, and upon them any suitable cards (Rule I), and when the queens
appear they are to be placed in a row above the foundations. The queens
are merely placed to complete the final tableau, which, if the patience
succeeds, consists of the eight queens above, the eight knaves
finishing the foundations in the centre, and the eight kings below. You
must continually examine the surface of the king packets to play any
suitable cards on the foundations, and in so doing endeavor to free
some of the kings entirely, for when the deal is ended you are allowed
to place one card from any of the other packets (Rule I) on each king,
and you must, of course, choose those cards that will release the
greatest number of suitable cards for the foundations, for which
purpose the whole packets may be examined. In this consists the entire
play.

There is no re-deal.




[Illustration: THE FOUR CORNERS.]




THE FOUR CORNERS

Two Entire Packs of Cards


RULES

 I. After the deal is completed, the uppermost card of each packet is
available and may be placed on _any of the foundations_, the cards
underneath being released as usual by the removal of those that covered
them.

II. Each foundation must follow suit.


PLAY

Deal out twelve cards as in tableau, beginning on the left. Place the
top corner card, then the four side cards, lastly the lower corner
card; repeat this process on the right hand, beginning with the top
corner, and leaving space in the centre for the foundation cards. These
will consist of four aces and four kings of different suits, the aces
ascending in sequence to kings, and the kings descending in sequence to
aces.

Having dealt the first round of twelve cards, proceed to deal out the
entire pack in successive rounds covering the first one, but in dealing
each several round the following method must be strictly observed:

The eight foundation cards, as they appear in the deal (whether they
fall on the corner or on the side packets), are to be at once played in
the space reserved for them, and on these may be played any suitable
cards which in dealing fall _on either of the four corner packets_; but
when a card (otherwise suitable) falls on either of the _side packets_,
it may not be played unless the foundation to which it belongs happens
to be the one _immediately adjoining the side packet on which that card
fell in dealing_.

_Note._--Whenever in dealing a card is withdrawn, to place on one of
the foundations, the next card in the pack is placed in its stead.

_After the entire deal is completed_ these restrictions cease, all
suitable cards may now be played, subject to Rule I, and marriages,
both in ascending and descending lines, may be made with cards on the
surface of the twelve packets; great care must, however, be taken in
making these marriages, lest in releasing one card you block another
that is equally required. The contents of each packet should be
carefully examined, and only those marriages made which release the
greatest number of suitable cards.

_Note._--The sequences thus made may be reversed if required, viz., if
one of the packets contained a sequence, beginning with deuce and
ascending to eight (this being, of course, the top card), and one of
the other packets had at the top a nine of the same suit, the eight
might be placed on the nine, the rest of the sequence following, till
the deuce became the top (or available) card.

When all possible combinations have been made, and further progress is
impossible, the twelve packets may be taken up in order, beginning on
the left, re-dealt, and played exactly as before. If necessary, there
may be two re-deals.




[Illustration: THE MILL.]




THE MILL

Two Entire Packs of Cards


RULES

 I. All cards in the wings are available.

II. The five foundations do not follow suit.


PLAY

Take from the pack one ace and place it in the centre before you; next
deal out eight cards, grouping them round the ace to represent the
wings of a windmill. The _first four kings_ that appear in dealing are
to be played in the four angles (see tableau). These, with the centre
ace, form the five foundation cards. Each of the four kings is to
descend in sequence to ace, while upon the centre ace four entire
families are to be piled in sequences (Rule II).

Having placed the centre ace and the wings, take from the latter any
kings for the foundations, or other suitable cards to play on them, or
on the centre ace, filling up the spaces so made from the cards in your
hand. Then proceed to deal out the remaining cards, turning them one by
one, playing all whose value admit of it on the foundations. The cards
that cannot be so used are placed aside in one packet, forming the
talon.

_Note._--The four families on the centre ace each begin with ace and
end with king.

It is better to play cards from the talon rather than from the wings.

Vacancies in the wings must be _immediately_ refilled from the pack or
talon.

In forming the foundations, the uppermost card of either of the king
packets may be transferred, if suitable, to the ace packet; but this
privilege is limited to _one_ card of each at a time, and may only be
resorted to when the playing of that card would bring into immediate
use any other available card of the wings or of the talon.

There is no re-deal.




[Illustration: THE SHAH.]




THE SHAH

Two Entire Packs of Cards


RULES

  I. During the deal cards in each circle of the star are available until
another circle blocks them. After the deal is completed only cards in
the third (or outer) circle are available until, as usual, their
removal releases the inner circles.

 II. Marriages are limited to cards in the third circle; cards in the
inner circles, even when released, can only be played, but not married.

III. The foundations must follow suit.


PLAY

Take from the pack the eight aces and the eight kings. Throw aside
seven of the kings and place the remaining one in the centre, with the
eight aces surrounding it in a circle.

The king is called The Shah, and remains alone. The aces are the
foundation cards, and are to ascend in sequence to queens.

Next deal out a circle of eight cards, beginning at the top and
continuing from left to right. If any of these are suitable, play them,
filling the spaces at once from the cards in your hand. Then deal out a
second circle, blocking the first one (Rule I), and treat it in the
same manner, then a third circle, which completes the rays of the star.

_Note._--In the pattern tableau the third circle is omitted for want of
space.

You should now examine the star, to see if there are any available
cards which it would be advantageous to marry, or to play (Rules I and
II), but you are not obliged to do either until a favorable opportunity
occurs. Marriages can only be made in descending line.

_Note._--It is often better to wait until, in dealing, a card turns up
likely to be soon required, and then, by playing or marrying, you make
a vacant space in which to place it.

When you have played or married all the cards you wish, the spaces so
made must be refilled from the talon or pack, beginning with the inner
circles, and proceeding from left to right as before.

The remaining cards are dealt out in the usual way, those not required
for the foundations, or for marrying, or for refilling spaces forming
the talon.

When a lane, _i.e._, one entire ray of the star, is opened out, the
place of the _inner_ card may be filled by _one card_ from the third
circle. This is sometimes of great use, and is a kind of "grace," as
this patience seldom succeeds. The other two spaces are refilled from
the talon, and this must be done at once, as each ray must always be
complete.

There is no re-deal.




[Illustration: THE BLOCKADE.]




THE BLOCKADE

Two Entire Packs of Cards


RULES

 I. All cards in the first row are available, but as each row is placed
it blocks the preceding one.

The removal of any card in the lower rows releases the one immediately
above it, the principle being that all cards are available that have
_no others below them_.

II. The foundations must follow suit.


PLAY

Deal out twelve cards in a horizontal line. Aces may be played as they
appear, but no other card can be played until the row is complete. The
eight aces are the foundation cards, and are to ascend in sequence to
kings.

When the first line is placed, play any suitable cards, and then marry
in descending line, but be careful to place the cards exactly over each
other, to avoid confusion. The vacancies thus caused must be
immediately refilled from the pack, then again play and marry. When
neither can be done, deal out another row underneath the first, and,
when it is complete, play, marry, and refill spaces as before.

You continue to deal out successive rows until the pack is exhausted,
always pausing between each row to play, marry, and refill spaces.

In the course of the game vacancies will often be made in the higher
rows. These must always be refilled first.

There is no re-deal.




[Illustration: THE CLOCK.]




THE CLOCK

Two Entire Packs of Cards


RULES

  I. When the circle is formed, the uppermost cards of each packet are
available, and their removal releases as usual those beneath.

 II. Marriages can only be made with cards in the circle, and not with
those from the pack or talon.

III. Vacancies in the circle must be refilled with cards from the pack,
but not from the talon; each packet must be refilled so as to contain
_not less_ than three cards.

 IV. The twelve foundations must follow suit.


PLAY

Withdraw from the pack the twelve cards, as in Tableau No. 1, and place
them in their exact order against the hours of the clock represented.
These are the foundation cards, and are to ascend in sequence until
each packet attains the hour of the clock against which it is placed.

Having placed these twelve foundations, proceed to deal out a circle
consisting of twelve packets of three cards dealt together--so spread
that each card is visible (see dotted line). From this circle you first
play all suitable cards (Rule I), and then marry in a descending line
(Rule II), and then refill spaces (Rule III). This last should be done
in order, from left to right, beginning at the numeral I, and all the
packets refilled before proceeding again to play or to marry.

_Note._--Although each packet must never contain less than the original
number of three cards, they will often, by marriages, contain more.

You are not obliged to play cards which would be more useful if left on
the circle.

When all further progress is at an end, deal out the remaining cards;
play all suitable ones, then marry and refill spaces, but be careful
not to infringe Rule II.

The cards that cannot be so employed are laid aside in one packet,
forming the talon, which can only be used to play on the foundations.

There is no re-deal.




[Illustration: FORTRESS.]




FORTRESS

One Entire Pack of Cards


RULES

 I. Only the outside cards of each group are available, until by their
removal the next ones are released, the principle being that no card
can be used _that has another outside it_.

_Note._--By "outside" is meant the cards on the right side of the
right-hand group, and those on the left side of the left-hand group.

II. The foundations must follow suit.


PLAY

Deal out the entire pack horizontally in two groups, as in tableau,
beginning at the left hand, and dealing straight across each group,
leaving space in the centre for four aces. These, when they can be
played, form the foundation cards, and are to descend in sequence to
kings.

Should any aces appear on the _outside_ of either group, play them, as
also any other suitable cards for continuing the foundations (Rules I
and II).

You next proceed to form marriages, both in ascending and in descending
lines, with cards on the outside of _both_ groups (Rule I). But this
must be done with extreme care, so as not only to release the greatest
number of suitable cards, but also, if possible, to open out one entire
horizontal row of cards to form a lane. The success of the game
entirely depends on these lanes. If, therefore, you succeed in opening
out one, it is more prudent not to refill it until, by some fresh
combination, others can be made.

When a lane is to be refilled, select any available card (Rule I), and
place it at the inner end of the lane, and along it any others in
sequence of the same suit, the last card being, of course, the
available one.

One great use of these lanes is to reverse any sequences that have been
made by marriages in the ascending line.

_Note._--Supposing you have placed upon a deuce a sequence ending with
eight; place the eight at the inner end of the lane, the other cards
following in succession until the deuce becomes the outside card. When
there are more cards in the lane than the original number, they can be
placed partly over each other.

There is no re-deal.




[Illustration: THE FOURTEENTH.]




THE FOURTEENTH

Two Entire Packs of Cards


PLAY

Deal out twenty-five cards in five rows, each containing five cards.
The object is to compose the number fourteen with any two cards taken
either from a perpendicular or from a horizontal row. The knave counts
eleven, the queen twelve, and the king thirteen.

The cards so paired are withdrawn, and their places filled by the cards
in your hand.

If in the course of the game the number fourteen cannot be composed,
one chance remains--any two cards may be taken from their proper
position, and may change places with any other two cards; and it is
only in making this exchange, so as to produce one or more fourteens,
that the player has any control over the success of the game, the
success consisting of the entire pack being paired off. In the tableau
three fourteens could be at once composed: The ten of hearts with the
four of clubs, the knave of spades with the three of hearts, the eight
of diamonds with the six of spades.




[Illustration: THE SULTAN.]




THE SULTAN

Two Entire Packs of Cards


RULE

The foundations must follow suit.


PLAY

Withdraw from the pack and place the eight kings and one ace of hearts
as in tableau.

The centre king of hearts is called the Sultan, and remains alone. The
other seven kings, with the ace of hearts, form the foundation cards.
Each of these seven kings begins with ace, and ascends in sequence to
queen. The ace of hearts ascends in the same manner, so that all the
eight packets surrounding the Sultan end with queens.

You next deal out eight cards, four on either side (see tableau). These
constitute the Divan. From this Divan you can play any suitable cards
on the foundations, and, having done so, proceed to deal out the
remainder of the pack, turning the cards one by one, those that are not
suitable for the foundations being laid aside in one packet, forming
the talon. Vacancies in the Divan must be immediately refilled from the
talon, or, when there is no talon, from the pack.

The talon may be taken up, shuffled, and re-dealt, if necessary, twice.




[Illustration: LA NIVERNAISE.]




LA NIVERNAISE

Two Entire Packs of Cards


RULES

  I. The Line is to consist of six packets, of which the uppermost card
of each is alone available, until by its removal the one beneath is
released--_the card which is uppermost at the time being always the
available one_.

 II. As many cards in each of the packets forming the Line may be
examined as there are vacancies in the Flanks.

III. All foundations must follow suit.

 IV. In re-dealing, the Line packets must be taken up in succession,
beginning on the left; then the whole together turned and re-dealt as
before.


PLAY

Place two perpendicular rows of four cards each, called Flanks, leaving
space in the centre for four aces and four kings of different suits.
These, when they can be played, form the foundation cards, the kings
descending in sequence to aces, the aces ascending in sequence to
kings.

You next deal from left to right six packets, each composed of four
cards dealt together, and placed in a horizontal line underneath. These
packets are called the Line, and will receive successive additions.

If any of the foundation cards appear on the surface of the Line, or on
the Flanks, play them in the spaces reserved; as also any other
suitable cards subject to Rule I, taking, however, in preference, cards
from the Flanks, as the vacancies so made are most important.

_Note._--So necessary to success are these vacancies that if, after
dealing the first round of the Line, none have been made, it is
scarcely worth while to continue the game.

They may be filled from the pack or from the Line, but it is never
prudent to fill up all vacancies; one at least should be left.

Single cards are not to be replaced on the Line; but if an entire
packet has been played off, four more cards are to be immediately
placed in its stead, and this rule applies to each several round.

When the resources thus far are exhausted, deal a second round of four
cards together, on each of the Line packets as before, and continue
thus to deal successive rounds until all the cards are dealt out, but
between each round pause and examine the Line (Rule II) and the Flanks,
and play all available cards.

The whole of the pack having been dealt, and further progress at an
end, take up the line as prescribed in Rule IV, re-deal, and play
exactly as at first.

There is only one re-deal.

In forming the foundations, one card at a time may be exchanged from
the ascending to the descending sequences, and _vice versÃ¢_.




[Illustration: THE EMPRESS OF INDIA.]




THE EMPRESS OF INDIA

Four Entire Packs of Cards


RULES

  I. All cards in the Army and Navy are equally available if played in
  pairs (_i.e._, one black and one red), but no card of either color
  can be played on a foundation _unless a card of the other color is
  played at the same time on another foundation_.

 II. Vacancies in the Army and Navy must be immediately refilled with
cards of their own color from the talon, or, when there is no talon,
from the pack.

III. Cards from the pack or talon cannot be played at once, but must
first pass through the Army or Navy.

 IV. The talon consists of two packets, one of red, the other of black,
cards.

  V. The foundations must follow suit.


PLAY

Withdraw from the pack the eight black aces and the eight black queens,
the eight red kings, and the eight red knaves.

Place these cards as in the tableau, throwing aside the four queens of
spades and three queens of clubs.

The remaining queen of clubs represents the Empress; the knaves, the
guard of British soldiers, and these nine cards remain alone.

The eight black aces and the eight red kings are the foundation cards,
the aces ascending in sequence to kings, representing Admirals, the
kings descending in sequence to aces, representing Generals.

_Note._--The red sequences must omit knaves, the black ones must omit
queens.

Deal out four horizontal rows, each containing twelve cards, of which
the two upper rows are to be red (the Army), the two lower ones black
(the Navy).

They are to be dealt at the same time, and if after the two rows of one
color, say red, are finished, more red cards turn up, they must be laid
aside as a talon (Rule IV).

When the Army and Navy are complete, if any available pairs of cards
have been dealt (Rule I), play them (the first pair must, of course, be
a black two and a red queen), and refill the spaces; but if there
should be none, you may proceed to pair cards. Any card in the Army may
be placed on any card in the Navy, and _vice versÃ¢_, but the cards so
paired cannot afterwards be separated, but must be played _at the same
time_ on their respective foundations. The vacancies thus made must be
immediately refilled (Rule II).

Each card can only be paired once.

You may choose your own time for pairing cards. For instance, if you
require, say, a ten of clubs for one of the foundations, you may defer
making a vacancy in the Navy until the ten of clubs is at the top of
the talon. When you have played all available cards, deal out the
remainder of the pack, those not required to fill vacancies being
placed in two packets (Rule IV).

There is no re-deal.

_Note._--The Army and Navy could not be placed in the tableau from want
of space.




[Illustration: THE BESIEGED CITY.]




THE BESIEGED CITY

Two Entire Packs of Cards


RULES

  I. The foundations are formed with cards from the Ramparts and from the
pack. Cards from the talon must pass through the Reserve, and the
Reserve must pass into the Ramparts before they can be played.

 II. Cards in the Ramparts may be placed on each other either in the
 usual ascending and descending sequences, or in the order in which
 they will be played, viz., queen on two, knave on three, and so on, or
 _vice versÃ¢_. They must be of the same suit; and sequences, both in
 ascending and in descending lines, may be placed in the same packet.

Cards in the Ramparts may be transferred from one packet to another at
discretion (the top card of each being alone available), and they must
follow suit.

III. Cards in the Reserve may in the same way be placed on those in the
Ramparts, _but only on the cards at the ends or sides of the line_ from
which they are taken.

_Note._--In the tableau the four of clubs could only be placed on cards
at A, B, C, or D, and in this case only on D.

 IV. Vacancies in the Ramparts are filled from the Reserve with any card
in the row at the end of which the vacancy occurs.

_Note._--In the tableau a vacancy at B or D could only be filled by the
four or ace of clubs, or by the seven or six of spades; and a vacancy
at A or C, by the ace of diamonds or by the three or four of clubs.

  V. Vacancies in the Reserve are filled from the talon or, when there is
no talon, from the pack.

 VI. The foundations must follow suit.


PLAY

Deal twelve cards in four rows of three cards each. Then deal an
_outside row_ of fourteen cards placed crossways. These are the
"Ramparts." The inside twelve cards are the "Reserve."

The foundation cards are four aces of different suits. On these are
placed kings, then deuces, queens, threes, and so on, each foundation
consisting of alternate sequences, ascending and descending, and
finishing as well as beginning with aces (Rule VI).

Having placed the tableau, take from the Ramparts aces or other suitable
cards (if any have been dealt), and play them in their allotted places,
_immediately filling each vacancy as it occurs_ (Rules IV and V); this
must be done throughout the game. Then transfer cards in the Ramparts,
and from the Reserve, as directed in Rules II and III.

When you have done all that you wished (for it is optional), and again
played if you can, deal out the remainder of the pack, the cards not
suitable for the foundations being placed in a talon.

At the end of the patience, when the talon is exhausted and all the
cards have been dealt, should there still be cards in the Reserve which
cannot be transferred to the Ramparts, you may transpose them to effect
this if you can.

This patience is exceedingly difficult.




[Illustration: THE FLOWER-GARDEN.]




THE FLOWER-GARDEN

One Entire Pack of Cards


RULES

  I. Any card in the Bouquet and the uppermost cards of the Garden are
available. The removal of the top cards releases those beneath.

 II. The foundations must follow suit.

III. Cards placed in sequence on the Garden _need not_ follow
suit.


PLAY

Deal six packets of six cards dealt together, and so spread that all
are visible. The four aces are the foundation cards, and are to ascend
in sequence to kings (Rule II).

Sixteen cards will remain, which are called the Bouquet, and must be
kept in the hand. Take from the Bouquet and from the Garden any aces or
other suitable cards (Rule I) and play them.

Next place cards in descending sequences in the Garden, transferring
them from one packet to another as often as you please (Rules I and
III), and you may place cards from the Bouquet in the same way. For
example, place the four of diamonds (see tableau) on the five of clubs,
then take the ten of hearts from the Bouquet and place it on the knave
of diamonds. The nine of clubs can now be transferred, and the ace and
deuce of diamonds are released.

This patience is exceedingly difficult. Cards taken from the Bouquet
cannot be returned to it, and there is only one deal. The greatest care
must, therefore, be taken in placing cards in sequence and in playing
them. You are not obliged to do either, and it is often better to leave
a card than to play it, as it may be useful in releasing others.

When an entire packet is cleared off, you may begin a new one with a
card from the Bouquet or from the Garden (Rule I), and this is often
the only means of removing a king, which, being the highest card, can
never be transferred.




[Illustration: THE HEMISPHERES.]




THE HEMISPHERES

Two Entire Packs of Cards


RULES

  I. Only cards that belong to their proper hemisphere are available.

 II. Cards of the wrong colors may be _exchanged_ into their proper
 hemispheres whenever the opportunity occurs, and at the end of the
 game, when all the cards are dealt and the talon is exhausted, they
 may be _transferred without an exchange_.

III. Cards may only marry those belonging to their own Race, but cards
from the talon may marry those of any Race.

 IV. The barriers cannot be moved till the end of the game, when they
are played to complete the foundations.

  V. All the foundations must follow suit.


PLAY

Take from the pack and place as in tableau the four red aces and the
four black kings.

Then place _crossways_ a king of hearts and a king of diamonds, an ace
of clubs and an ace of spades. The four latter cards are called
barriers, and divide each Race.

The four black kings and the four red aces form the foundation cards,
the aces ascending in sequence to kings, the kings descending in
sequence to aces.

The red cards, representing Europeans and Asiatics, should inhabit the
northern hemisphere; the black cards, representing Australians and
Africans, the southern; but it is obvious that, in dealing and
refilling vacancies, cards will often be found in the wrong
hemispheres, _and while there they cannot be used in any way_.

Having placed the foundations and the barriers, deal out (from left to
right, beginning from the king of hearts) a circle consisting of three
cards between each barrier. These represent the four Races. From these
Races you play, marry, and exchange all available cards subject to
Rules I, II, III, and V.

_Note._--The red suits marry in descending line; the black, in
ascending line.

This done, you deal out the remainder of the pack, first refilling
vacancies in the Races (proceeding from left to right, as in the
original deal) and then playing all suitable cards. The rest form the
talon, from which cards may marry those in the circle, subject to Rules
I and III.

There is no re-deal.




[Illustration: NAPOLEON'S SQUARE.]




NAPOLEON'S SQUARE

Two Entire Packs of Cards


RULES

  I. Only the uppermost cards of the packets in the square are available
until, by their removal, the cards underneath are released, but the
whole of the square may be examined.

 II. When a vacancy in the square is caused by the removal of an entire
packet, the space may be filled by one card from the talon or pack, but
this need not be done until a favorable opportunity occurs.

III. All the foundations must follow suit.


PLAY

Deal out twelve packets, each consisting of four cards dealt together,
so as to form three sides of a square, leaving space in the centre for
the eight aces. These are the foundation cards, and are to ascend in
sequence to kings.

If any aces appear on the surface of the square, play them in their
allotted places, as also any other suitable cards.

You next proceed to form marriages in a descending line with the cards
of the square, subject to Rule I. As usual, great judgment must be
exercised in making these changes, lest cards underneath should be
blocked by a sequence of higher cards of the same suit. If this were to
occur in two packets, _i.e._, if in both cases sequences, say, of
diamonds blocked lower cards of the same suit, success would be
impossible.

_Note._--If after dealing the square two kings of one suit were found
to be blocking two smaller cards of that suit, either the whole must be
taken up and re-dealt, or one king must be slipped underneath.

You now proceed to play out the rest of the cards, those that are not
suitable for the foundations or for the sequences of the square being
placed in a talon.

There is no re-deal.

This game may be also played as follows:

Deal out a square of twelve _single_ cards, then deal the rest of the
pack as usual, the cards that are suitable being played on the
foundations or married (in descending line) to those on the square,
ready to be transferred to the foundations, the rest placed in a talon,
and vacancies filled in the usual manner.




[Illustration: THE CONSTITUTION.]




THE CONSTITUTION

Two Entire Packs of Cards


RULES

  I. The foundations are formed exclusively from the "Privy Council." All
cards in the other divisions, pack, or talon must ascend through each
division till they reach the top before they can be played.

 II. Cards in the three lower divisions may be placed in sequence on
cards in the next division above them, and in this manner they may be
transferred from one division to another till they reach the top.

III. When cards are placed in sequence in the "Constitution," the top
card only of each sequence is available until its removal releases the
one beneath.

 IV. All sequences must be of alternate colors and in descending
 line--_i.e._, a red nine on a black ten, then a black eight, a red
 seven, and so on. Any number of cards may be so placed.

  V. Each vacancy must be _at once_ filled by a card from the division
  immediately below it; and as this rule applies equally to all the
  rows, a vacancy will thus be caused in the lowest row or "People,"
  which must be filled from the talon, or, when there is no talon, from
  the pack.

 VI. The foundations must follow suit.


PLAY

Take from the pack the kings, queens, and aces--seven of the queens are
to be thrown aside and the other cards placed as in tableau.

The queen of diamonds represents THE SOVEREIGN; the black kings, the
Bishops; the red kings, the Judges.

The eight aces form the foundation cards or "Government," and ascend in
sequence to knaves.

Deal out four horizontal rows (beginning with the lowest), each
containing eight cards.

This forms the "Constitution." Each row represents a separate division.

The first (or lowest row) is the "People"; the second, the "House of
Commons"; the third, the "House of Lords"; the last the "Privy
Council."

When the tableau is complete, if any suitable cards are to be found in
the "Privy Council" row, play them (Rule I), immediately refilling each
vacancy as it is made (Rule V).

You must then examine the Constitution to see which cards may be most
advantageously placed in sequence (Rules II and IV).

_Note._--The success of this game depends chiefly on the play. In
filling a vacancy choose the card (Rule V) which has the most chance of
reaching the top, or of being useful to cards in the row below it. It
is often better to defer making a vacancy till a card turns up in
dealing that is required.

When you have played all available cards and placed in sequence all
that you wish, deal out the remainder of the pack, the cards not
required to fill vacancies in the "People" forming the talon.




[Illustration: THE ZODIAC.]




THE ZODIAC

Two Entire Packs of Cards


RULES

 I. Marriages may be made in the Zodiac with cards from the Equator
 (but not _vice versÃ¢_) and from the talon or pack, but cards in the
 Zodiac cannot marry each other, neither can those in the Equator do
 so. Marriages may be made in ascending and descending lines, and the
 same packet may contain both.

II. The foundations must follow suit.


PLAY

Deal eight cards in a horizontal row called the "Equator." Then deal a
surrounding circle of twenty-four cards called the "Zodiac."

The foundations are not formed _till the end of the game_. They are to
consist of the four aces and four kings of different suits, the aces
ascending in sequence to kings, the kings descending in sequence to
aces.

Having placed the tableau, you proceed to marry (Rule I) and to refill
the spaces from the talon, or, where there is no talon, from the pack,
but you are not obliged to do either until a favorable opportunity
occurs. You continue to deal out the cards in the usual way, those not
required for marrying or for refilling spaces forming the talon. This
is to be re-dealt as often as required--that is, until all the cards
are placed either in the Zodiac or in the Equator. If this cannot be
done, the patience has already failed. If you succeed in placing all
the cards, you then begin to form the eight foundations from the Zodiac
and Equator (Rule II).

It is obvious that the greatest care is required in marrying the cards,
or you will so block them as to be unable to form the foundations.




[Illustration: THE KINGS.]




THE KINGS

Two Entire Packs of Cards


RULES

  I. The foundations do not follow suit, neither do the cards placed in
sequence on the columns.

 II. Only the _outside cards of each group of columns_ are available
until, by their removal, the next ones are released, the principle
being that no card is available _that has another outside it_.

_Note._--By "outside" is meant the cards on the right side of the
right-hand group, and those on the left side of the left-hand group.

III. _During the deal_ no card is available for playing on the
foundations unless it is on the _same horizontal line as the
foundation_ (of either group) _for which it is suitable_. When the
entire deal is complete, this restriction ceases.


PLAY

Withdraw from the packs the eight aces, and place them in two columns,
taking care that each suit is in juxtaposition as in tableau.

The eight aces form the foundations, which ascend in sequence (Rule I)
to kings. On either side of the foundations, deal out a column of four
cards, and if in dealing these a suitable card turns up, available for
a foundation, _in accordance with Rule III_, play it at once; replacing
it with the next card from the pack. You continue to deal out successive
columns of four cards, alternately on the right and left of the first
ones, until the pack is exhausted, thus forming two groups of columns,
with the eight aces in the centre. To avoid confusion, it is best to
deal the columns regularly, first on the left, and then on the right,
side.

In dealing, never omit to play suitable cards as they turn up, subject
to Rule III, for as each column is placed it blocks the preceding one
(Rule II), and _during the deal_ you may not play cards from the inner
columns, even if released.

When the pack is exhausted, you examine the tableau, and may now play
any available cards (Rule II), the restriction as to their being on the
same horizontal line having ceased. Sequences (Rule I), both ascending
and descending, may now be formed with cards on the outside of both
groups (Rule II), and these sequences may be reversed, as they are
required to play on the foundations, by transferring them from one
packet to another. If an entire horizontal row of cards has been
removed, you may place any available card at the inner end of the lane
so formed, and sequences may be placed upon it, as on the others.

There is no re-deal.

_Note._--It is not perfectly clear from the original whether the
restriction mentioned in Rule III ceases when the deal is complete,
but, the game being a very difficult one, it is advisable to interpret
it in the affirmative.




[Illustration: BABETTE.]




BABETTE

Two Entire Packs of Cards


RULES

  I. The foundations follow suit.

 II. Vacancies in the garden _are not to be refilled_.

III. Each row of cards in the garden blocks the preceding one, but on
the removal of cards in the lower rows those above them are released.


PLAY

Deal out eight cards in a horizontal line. This commences what is
called the "garden." When the first row is complete, take from it any
foundations and place them in the allotted spaces above, and also other
suitable cards, but do not refill vacancies (Rule II).

The foundations consist of four aces and four kings of different suits,
ascending and descending in the usual sequences (Rule I).

_Note._--The tableau is so arranged that one of the king foundations
has already descended to queen, and one of the ace foundations has
ascended to three. The vacant spaces in the garden show from whence
cards have been removed, and not replaced; but there would probably be
many more rows in the garden than are shown on the tableau.

You next proceed to deal out successive rows in the garden underneath
the first one till the pack is exhausted, strictly observing Rule II.

If there is not room to place each row of the garden below the preceding
one, it must be placed so as to half cover it, but in that case,
especially if there are many vacancies, the rows of cards are apt to
get mixed, so it is best to count from the top, to make sure that you
are placing the row you are working on in its proper detached line, and
are not partly refilling other rows. _You must finish each row before
playing from it._

When the garden is laid out, and all available cards have been played
(Rule III), take up by itself each perpendicular column, beginning on
the left, placing the next column underneath the first, and so on with
each column in succession, so that, in turning the pack to re-deal, the
last column on the right may be uppermost, thus reversing the order of
each row of cards in the next deal.

The garden may be taken up twice and re-dealt exactly in the same
manner and observing the same rules.




[Illustration: NESTOR.]




NESTOR

One Entire Pack of Cards


PLAY

Deal out in horizontal lines six rows each containing eight cards. In
dealing these, you must be careful that there should never be two cards
of equal value in the same _perpendicular_ line. If, for example, two
kings or two fives (the same, of course, applies to all the cards) were
to be underneath each other, even though several other cards intervened
between them, it would be useless to proceed. You must, therefore,
consider the duplicate card as unavailable for the moment and place it
at the bottom of the pack in hand, and proceed to deal the next card.

When the tableau is complete, four cards will remain, which are to be
placed aside, as a reserve. You then examine the tableau and endeavor
to pair the cards, taking only those of the lowest row, until their
removal releases those above. When no more can be paired, you have
recourse to those of the reserve, taking them up one by one. If the
first cannot be paired, put it aside, taking the next, but the card or
cards so put aside can be paired afterwards if the opportunity of doing
so arises. If all the cards cannot be paired, the game has failed.




[Illustration: LIGHT AND SHADE.]




LIGHT AND SHADE

Two Entire Packs of Cards


RULES

  I. The foundations ascend in sequence, but are formed in alternate
colors: red ace, black deuce, red three, and so on.

 II. Cards placed on the Auxiliaries descend in sequence, but must also
alternate in color.

III. Vacancies in the Auxiliaries are filled by cards from the Rivals;
vacancies in the Rivals, by cards from the pack or talon.


PLAY

Withdraw from the pack the eight aces, and place them in a horizontal
line (the suits as in tableau). These are the foundation cards, which
ascend in sequence to kings (Rule I).

Next deal out eight cards and place them above the foundations in two
rows, four cards in each (see tableau). The upper row is called the
Auxiliaries; the lower one, the Rivals. If any suitable cards are found
in the Auxiliaries, play them, filling the spaces so made from the
Rivals (Rule III). Cards from the Rivals may be placed in descending
sequence on those of the Auxiliaries (Rule II), and the sequences so
formed will be played as opportunity arises on to the foundations.
Continue to deal out the pack, playing, placing on the Auxiliaries, and
refilling spaces according to rules--the non-suitable cards forming a
talon.

It must be remembered that cards can only be played on the foundations
_from the Auxiliaries_, and not straight from the Rivals or from the
talon; cards from these must first pass into the Auxiliaries.

There is no re-deal.




[Illustration: THE LABYRINTH.]




THE LABYRINTH

Two Entire Packs of Cards


RULES

  I. The foundations follow suit.

 II. Only cards in the highest or lowest rows are available, until a
card from any other row is released, by the removal of cards either
above or below it, the principle being that no card can be used that is
not free _either_ from the top or the bottom. Small crosses are placed
on the tableau to mark the cards that are available.

III. You can only refill vacancies in the lowest row as the deal goes
on (_i.e._, in the row which you are actually dealing).

 IV. Each row must be completed before you can play from it.


PLAY

Withdraw from the pack and place in horizontal line above, four kings
and four aces of different suits. These are the foundations, the aces
ascending in sequence to kings, the kings descending to aces (Rule I).

You next deal out ten cards in a horizontal row, and when the row is
complete, play any suitable cards on the foundations, refilling the
vacancies from the pack or talon.

Proceed to deal out a second row of ten cards underneath the first,
playing suitable ones as before, playing _also from the upper row_, and
refilling spaces subject to Rule III. As you may only refill vacancies
on the last row which is being dealt, there will be many gaps in the
tableau as you proceed.

You continue thus to deal out the entire pack in successive rows, each
row completely blocking the preceding one unless the removal of a card
releases the one above it, or _unless the removal of cards in the upper
rows_ (Rule II) releases that card from above.

When the pack is exhausted and you have played all available cards, if
the game has not succeeded, you have one more chance, _i.e._, the
privilege of removing any one card from the tableau, taking care, of
course, to remove the card which blocks those most needed. The choice
of this "grace" is the only point left to the skill of the player.

There is no re-deal.

_Note 1._--Some players instead of taking the foundations from the
pack, wait till they appear in the deal.

_Note 2._--The dimensions of the tableau preclude the insertion of the
spaces for the foundation cards.




[Illustration: SPENSER'S FAIRIE QUEEN.]




SPENSER'S FAIRIE QUEEN

Two Entire Packs of Cards


RULES

  I. The foundations follow suit.

 II. If during the deal two or more kings turn up in succession, cards
can only be placed on the last one.

III. Available cards may be transferred from one column to another in
descending sequence and need not follow suit.

 IV. Only the lowest card of each column is available, until its removal
releases the one above it.

  V. Any available card may be transferred to a single king, and
sequences may be placed upon that card as upon those of the other
columns.


PLAY

Take one king from the pack, and place it at the left-hand upper
corner. Upon this king you place the cards as they are dealt, in
perpendicular column, each card half covering the preceding one, until
a second king appears, which must be placed next to the first one, and
becomes in its turn the head of a second column (Rule II). When a third
king appears, it is placed next to the second one, and is treated in
like manner, and so on until the pack is exhausted, cards being always
placed on the last king turned up. Thus some kings will head lines of
different lengths (see Note 3, on next page), and some will probably
remain alone, and this, as will be seen, is very advantageous.

During the deal, aces as they turn up are placed in the spaces
reserved.

The eight aces form the foundation cards and ascend in sequence to
queens (Rule I). (See Note 2.)

Suitable cards may be played as they turn up in the deal, and after
playing each, the columns should be examined, as the playing of a card
may bring other available ones (Rule IV) into use.

When the deal is complete, the tableau must be carefully examined.

Available cards may now be transferred from one column to another (Rule
III) or placed on the single kings (Rule V) or played on the
foundations. And it is sometimes better not to play cards, but to leave
them to receive sequences.

It is not advisable to transfer queens, as they cannot be moved again
until required to complete the foundations, but it is often necessary
to do so, when their removal would release cards urgently needed. The
success of the game greatly depends on the skill of the player in
transferring the sequences backward and forward so as to release as
many cards as possible. There is no re-deal. (See Note 1.)

_Note 1._--Supposing that you have two single kings and wish to release
a knave of hearts which is blocked with a descending sequence, the last
card of that sequence being a four, place the four and then the five on
the two spare kings. The six is thus released, and if a seven should be
at the bottom of any other column, you transfer the six on to it, and
also the five and the four, thus again freeing the two kings. Now put
up the seven and the eight (of the column you are trying to work off)
on to those kings. Then transfer the seven to the eight, and place the
nine on the remaining king. You have now only the ten left to block
your knave of hearts; you will probably find, or be able to release,
some other available knave, on which you will place the ten. In this
somewhat complicated manner you arrive at the desired knave of hearts.
The combinations are endless.

_Note 2._--The spaces for the foundations are not marked for want of
room.

_Note 3._--It often happens that so many cards have to be dealt on to
one king before the next one appears that the column can no longer be
continued in a straight line. The player must, therefore, twist the
cards to gain room (see tableau), the small crosses show the available
cards.




[Illustration: THE TERRACE.]




THE TERRACE

Two Entire Packs of Cards


RULES

  I. Only the last card (_i.e._, the right-hand one) of the Terrace is
  available till its removal releases the card next to it.

 II. The foundations ascend in sequence and must be formed with
alternate red and black cards.

III. Cards in the valley may be transferred in alternate _descending_
sequence from one packet to another, and the uppermost card of the
talon may also be placed in sequence on the valley, but, like those of
the foundations, the sequences in the valley must be formed of
alternate colors.

 IV. Only the uppermost cards of the valley packets are available until
their removal releases those beneath.


PLAY

Deal out from left to right a row of thirteen cards. This is called the
Terrace. You next turn up from the pack in hand three cards, and choose
one of the three as a foundation. Place the foundation card underneath
the Terrace on the left side, and the seven other cards of similar
value will take their places, as they turn up in the deal, in a line
with the first foundation (see tableau).

You next place your two rejected cards underneath the foundation, and
deal out seven other cards alongside, forming a third horizontal row of
nine cards. This is called the valley. From the valley you take any
foundations, and having placed them, you play also any other suitable
cards (Rule II); but you must first examine the Terrace, as cards must
always in preference be played from the Terrace (Rule I). Having played
all suitable cards, and refilled the vacancies in the valley from the
pack in hand, proceed to place cards in sequence in the valley (Rules
III and IV), of course playing them in preference on the foundations
when possible, but remember always to examine the Terrace, as the
success of the game depends entirely on detaching cards from the
Terrace. If even a suitable card could be played from the valley, and
none were at the moment available on the Terrace, it would still be
better to refrain from playing it, if an equally suitable card from the
Terrace were likely shortly to be released. In reference to your choice
of the foundation cards, you should always examine the available card
of the Terrace and choose, if possible, one below it in value.

You next proceed to deal out the entire pack, playing on foundations
(Rule II), placing and transferring cards in the valley (Rules III and
IV), and refilling vacancies.

There is no re-deal.




[Illustration: GENERAL SEDGEWICK.]




GENERAL SEDGEWICK

One Entire Pack of Cards


RULES

  I. The original five cards forming the cross are available, but when
they are covered by the addition of others, only the uppermost card of
each packet is available until its removal releases the card beneath.

 II. The foundations follow suit.

III. Cards on the cross may be transferred in descending sequence from
one packet to another, and cards from the pack or talon may also be
placed in descending sequence on those of the cross.

 IV. Cards on the cross need not follow suit.


PLAY

Deal five cards and place them in the form of a cross.

The next card turned is to be placed in the left-hand upper corner, and
this constitutes the foundation card, the three others of similar
value, as they appear, being placed in the three other corners (see
tableau).

The foundation cards ascend in sequence (Rule II).

Having placed the cross and the first foundation, play any foundation
or other suitable cards from the cross, filling the vacancies from pack
or talon. You then proceed to transfer cards on the cross (Rules I,
III, and IV); and although not necessary, it is very advantageous that
these packets should be of the same suit, as they are then ready to be
played on to the foundations, and to effect this by transferring the
cards backward and forward as much as possible should be the great
object of the player.

Continue to deal out the cards till the pack is exhausted--playing,
transferring, and refilling vacancies. The non-suitable cards form the
talon.

There is no re-deal.




[Illustration: THE QUEENS.]




THE QUEENS

Two Entire Packs of Cards


RULES

  I. The foundations follow suit.

 II. The uppermost card of the key is alone available until its removal
releases the card beneath; each card that is played releasing the one
that it covered.

III. Cards from the key can only be played on the foundations and may
not be placed on the shutter.

 IV. The cards in payment of the queens are taken from the _top_ of the
key (fourteen for each queen _including_ herself).

  V. Cards in payment of the queens are taken from the _bottom_ of the
talon (three for each queen _exclusive_ of herself).


PLAY

Take from the pack thirty-two cards; place them in a packet on the left
side, face upward. This packet is called the key. If the uppermost card
should be a queen, take fourteen cards from the top of the key
(including the queen) and place them at the bottom of the pack (Rule
IV). After removing the fourteen cards, should the next card on the key
chance also to be a queen, you repeat the process, thus adding
twenty-eight cards to the pack, and diminishing those on the key. Even
if the next card in like manner chanced to be a queen, you would take
all the remaining cards of the key (which could, however, only be four)
and add them to the pack,--thus getting rid of the key, which would
greatly facilitate the success of the game.

After dealing out the key (and if you have good luck, diminishing it)
you next proceed to deal seven cards, placing them in two rows of four
and three cards respectively. (See tableau.) These are called the
shutter. If during the dealing of these any kings appear, place them in
a row above. The eight kings are the foundations, which ascend through
aces to queens (Rule I).

When the shutter is dealt, play from it any suitable cards, refilling
the spaces at once, but always first look to see if a card from the key
is available (Rules II and III), and play that in preference, as it is
all important to get rid of the key. Cards on the shutter can marry in
descending line with each other, or with cards from the pack or talon.
When you have married or played all available cards, deal out the
remainder of the pack, playing, marrying, and refilling spaces; the
unsuitable cards forming a talon.

You must carefully count the number of queens that you place in the
talon (it is best to have some counters at hand for this purpose), as
when the pack is exhausted each of these queens counts for three
cards--_i.e._, for each queen you take from the bottom of the talon
three cards besides herself (Rule V)--and these cards constitute a
fresh pack to deal from.

Thus, if the talon contains six queens, you take from it eighteen cards
exclusive of the six queens (Rule V) and deal them out again, and again
count the queens to repay yourself as before. This is done to give a
fresh chance of winning the game, as the talon is not re-dealt in its
entirety. If the talon has not sufficient cards left to pay three for
each queen, you simply take all that remain, and then there is good
hope of success, if the key has also been played out.




[Illustration: THE HERRING-BONE.]




THE HERRING-BONE

Two Entire Packs of Cards


RULES

  I. The foundations follow suit.

 II. The lowest (or twenty-eighth) card of the herring-bone is alone
available until its removal releases the next one (_i.e._, the uppermost
card of the fan above it), then the second card of the fan becomes the
available one, then the third, then the single card above the fan just
played, and so on, the removal of each card rendering the next one
available.

III. All the cards in the side scenes and the four bars are available.

 IV. Vacancies on the bars are refilled from cards of the herring-bone
(Rule II), but vacancies on the side scenes may only be refilled from
the pack or talon.


PLAY

Deal out twenty-eight cards, beginning from the top (see tableau),
thus: Three at the top, placed fan shape, then a single card half
covering the fan, then another fan half covering the single card, then
another single card, and so on till you have seven fans and seven
single cards: this is called the herring-bone, the last card being a
single one and available. (Rule II.)

You next deal out eight cards, four on each side the herring-bone:
these are called side scenes. Then place one card horizontally above
and below each side scene: these are called bars. When these forty
cards are placed, the next card dealt becomes the foundation, and is
placed in one of the allotted spaces, the other seven cards of similar
value being placed as they appear on the tableau, or during the deal.

Four of the foundations ascend in sequence and four descend (Rule I),
and it is best to place the ascending on the right side, the descending
on the left.

When the tableau is complete, and the first foundation has been played,
examine the whole and play from the herring-bone, bars, or side scenes
any foundations or other suitable cards. Always choose, in preference,
cards from the herring-bone or bars, as on the removal of the
herring-bone the success of the game mainly depends, and if a bar is
removed, the available card on the herring-bone replaces it, thus
releasing the next. (Rules II and III.)

Having played and refilled all spaces, proceed to deal out the entire
pack, playing all suitable cards, and refilling spaces; the unsuitable
cards forming the talon. In forming the foundations, one card at a time
may be exchanged from the ascending to the descending sequence, and
_vice versÃ¢_.

The talon may be taken up, shuffled, and re-dealt twice.

_Note._--It is so exceedingly disadvantageous that there should be
duplicate cards in the herring-bone, that in the German variety of this
game the herring-bone is set out from a single pack before the two
packs are shuffled.




[Illustration: THE OLGA.]




THE OLGA

Four Piquet Packs


RULES

  I. The foundations follow suit.

 II. Each card in the flower-bed must be turned face upward as soon as
the card immediately below it is removed. The card so turned is then
available.

III. Cards on the flower-bed may be placed in descending sequence upon
each other (and cards from the pack or talon may also be placed in
sequence on the flower-bed), but must be so placed in alternate colors,
_i.e._, a black eight upon a red nine, and so on.


PLAY

Deal out forty-nine cards in seven horizontal rows, each containing
seven cards. This is called the flower-bed. In the first row the cards
are placed face upward, in the second row face downward, and so on
alternately, the seventh or last row being face upward. Should there
not be space, each row may half cover the preceding one. The
foundations consist of sixteen aces, ascending in sequence through
sevens to kings (Rule I). When the flower-bed has been dealt, if any
aces appear in the lowest row, play them in their allotted spaces, as
also any deuces or other suitable cards, always turning the card above
the one played, face upward. Available cards on the flower-bed (Rule
II) may be placed in descending sequence on each other, but in
alternate colors (Rule III). They may be transferred from one packet to
another, and on doing this judiciously the success of the game depends.
Cards from the pack or talon may also be placed in sequence (Rule III)
on those of the flower-bed. [You are not obliged to play cards on the
foundations, if to place them on the flower-bed seems more
advantageous.] Continue to deal out the entire pack, playing on
foundations, placing and transferring on the flower-bed, the unsuitable
cards forming the talon. If you succeed in removing an entire
perpendicular row of cards, the space at the top may be filled by any
available card of the flower-bed (Rule II), and upon that card may be
placed sequences (Rule III) as on the other rows.




[Illustration: CÃ†SAR.]




CÃ†SAR

Nine Cards from One Entire Pack


PLAY

Withdraw from one entire pack nine cards, composed of any suits, from
ace to nine inclusive. Place these nine cards in three rows, each
containing three cards. Endeavor, by changing their position, so to
dispose them, that the number of pips in each row, counting the cards
horizontally, perpendicularly, and diagonally, may make the sum of
fifteen. The tableau shows only three fifteens, but if the cards are
properly placed eight fifteens can be made.




[Illustration: RED AND BLACK.]




RED AND BLACK

Two Entire Packs of Cards


RULES

 I. The foundations follow suit.

II. Cards may be placed on the Volunteers in descending sequence, but
they must be of alternate colors. On the black four (see tableau) would
be placed a red three, then a black deuce, and so on.


PLAY

Withdraw from the pack the eight aces, placing them in pairs of
alternate colors in a horizontal line (see tableau). These are the
foundations and ascend in sequence to kings (Rule I). Next deal out
eight cards, placing them underneath the foundations. This row of cards
is called the Volunteers. Examine the Volunteers and play any suitable
cards on to the foundations, immediately filling each vacancy from the
cards in hand. When no more can be played, proceed to form sequences in
descending line with cards of the Volunteers, subject strictly to Rule
II; then again play all that are suitable and proceed to deal out the
cards till the pack is exhausted, playing cards on the foundations or
placing them in sequence on the Volunteers, and always refilling
vacancies. The unsuitable cards form the talon.

When the pack is exhausted, the talon may be taken up, shuffled, and
re-dealt once.




[Illustration: THE SQUARE.]




THE SQUARE

Two Entire Packs of Cards


RULES

 I. The foundations follow suit.

II. The four aces (foundation cards) ascend in sequence to kings. When
each packet has ascended to king, a second king (same suit) is placed
on the top, and another sequence on the same packet descends to ace,
with which the four foundations terminate.


PLAY

Deal out sixteen cards, as in tableau. This is the "Square" (Quadrat).

During the deal, the four aces of different suits must be placed in
their allotted spaces as they appear. These are the foundations, which
ascend in sequence to kings and descend again to aces (Rule II).

When the Square is complete, play from it any suitable cards, and marry
both in ascending and descending line with cards on the Square,
immediately refilling spaces from the pack or talon. Continue to deal
out the whole pack, playing first in ascending, then in descending
sequence (Rule II), marrying, and refilling spaces; the unsuitable
cards forming the talon. The sequences on the Square can be reversed
from one packet to another, thus if on one packet there were a sequence
of which the top card was a nine, and on another a sequence of which
the top card was either an eight or a ten (of course of the same suit),
either of these could be placed on the nine and the whole sequence
reversed, but great care must be taken in reversing sequences, lest
cards should hopelessly block each other. Much practice is required in
order to avoid this danger.

If the game succeeds, the double series of sequences which began with
four aces, will likewise finish with four aces.

There is no re-deal.




[Illustration: MARGARETHE.]




MARGARETHE

One Entire Pack of Cards


RULES

 I. The foundations follow suit.

II. The king foundations descend from ten to eight; the knaves, from
seven to five; the queens, from four to two.


PLAY

Withdraw from the pack all the court cards and place them in the form
of an M, as in tableau. These twelve cards are the foundations. All the
aces as they appear are to be placed in one packet in the M underneath
the knaves. You next deal nine cards and place them in the form of an A
(see tableau).

These are the help cards, and from them you play any that are suitable
on to the foundations, the first played on a king being a ten, on a
knave a seven, and on a queen a four (Rules I and II), filling the
spaces from the pack in hand. You next proceed to deal out the whole
pack, playing on the foundations, placing aces in the reserved space in
the M, refilling vacancies in the A, and placing unsuitable cards in
the talon.

If the game succeeds, the final tableau will form an M composed of the
eights, the fives and the twos, the four aces being placed crossways in
the centre.

The talon may be re-dealt once.




[Illustration: MOUNT OLYMPUS.]




MOUNT OLYMPUS

Two Entire Packs of Cards


RULES

  I. The foundations and the battery follow suit.

 II. The foundations ascend in alternate sequences; the aces, in odd
numbers, 3, 5, 7, etc., till they finish with kings; the twos, in even
numbers, 4, 6, 8, etc., till they finish with queens. (Knaves count
eleven; queens, twelve.)

III. Cards may be placed on the battery in alternate descending
sequence; thus, on a nine place a seven, on the seven, a five, on a
queen place a ten, then an eight, and so on.

 IV. The uppermost cards of the battery are alone available, until their
removal releases those beneath.


PLAY

Withdraw from the pack the eight aces and the eight twos, and place
them in the form of a pyramid, as in tableau; these are the foundations
which ascend in alternate sequence, till they end respectively with
kings and queens. (Rules I and II.)

Next deal out nine cards as in tableau, this is called the battery.
Suitable cards of the battery may be played on the foundations, and may
also be placed on each other in alternate descending sequence. (Rules
I, III, and IV.) The unsuitable cards form the talon. Continue to deal
out the entire pack, playing on the pyramid, placing cards on the
battery, and refilling spaces from pack or talon.

If the game succeeds, the pyramid will be formed of alternate kings and
queens.

The talon may be taken up and re-dealt once.




[Illustration: THE WHEEL.]




THE WHEEL

Two Entire Packs of Cards


RULES

  I. Vacancies in the cushion are only refilled after the first deal, but
not after any subsequent deal.

 II. _No two cards of the same value_ may be used in making each
combination of eighteen.

III. Even when there are three cards on the cushion which make the
required sum, these cards cannot be removed unless the cushion contains
a court card to crown them. They must in that case remain in their
places until a court card appears on the cushion.

 IV. Court cards are excluded from the combinations, which must be made
with the pips of minor cards, the court cards crowning each packet.

  V. Only the uppermost cards of the cushion are available, but their
removal releases those underneath.


PLAY

Withdraw the eight aces and place them in the form of a cross (see
tableau). Next, deal out twelve cards in two horizontal rows beneath,
but leaving room for the circle to be placed as in tableau. These
twelve cards are called the cushion. The object is to make as many
combinations of the sum of eighteen as possible with cards in the
cushion. Each combination must be composed of three cards (Rule IV) and
no two cards must be of similar value (Rule II). Some of the
combinations, for example, might be 2, 7, 9, or 3, 5, 10, or 2, 6, 10,
and so on.

When any three cards make the required sum, take them up together, and
put any court card that may be in the cushion at the top, and place the
packet thus crowned, face upward, on one of the spaces reserved in the
circle. Should there be no court card, the combination cannot be made
(Rule III). As you withdraw cards to place on the circle, refill the
spaces from the pack in hand.

When no more combinations can be made, you proceed to deal out twelve
more cards, covering those already forming the cushion, and to make
fresh combinations with all available cards (Rule V); but when
vacancies are now made they cannot be refilled. (Rule I.) Cards,
therefore, in this and the subsequent deals may have to be dealt on to
empty spaces from which other cards have been withdrawn.

You continue to deal out fresh rows following the same rules, and must
never make combinations until each deal is complete.

If the game succeeds, the final tableau will show the cross of aces in
the centre, surrounded by a circle of twenty-four court cards.

There is no re-deal.




[Illustration: TWO RINGS.]




TWO RINGS

Two Entire Packs of Cards


RULE

The foundations follow suit.


PLAY

Withdraw from the pack all the sevens and all the sixes, and arrange
them as in tableau. These are the foundations. The sevens ascend to
kings, the sixes descend to aces (Rule).

You next deal out eight cards in a horizontal line. This is called the
bracelet. Take from the bracelet all suitable cards and play them on
the foundations, refilling vacancies in the bracelet, and placing
unsuitable cards on the talon.

If the game succeeds, the "Zwei Ringe" (two rings) will be formed
respectively of kings and aces.

The talon may be taken up and re-dealt once.




[Illustration: THE NATION.]




THE NATION

Two Entire Packs of Cards


RULES

  I. The foundations follow suit.

 II. In dealing the cards of each column and counting them from one to
eight, a card played on the foundation does not have its _number_
repeated, the next card dealt counting as the _following_ number.

III. Only the lowest card of each column is available until its removal
releases the one above it; no card being available that has another
below it.


PLAY

Withdraw from the pack four aces and four kings of different suits,
placing them above in two horizontal lines. These are the foundations,
the aces ascending in sequence to kings, the kings descending to aces
(Rule I). Underneath the foundations deal out eight cards in a
_perpendicular_ line, beginning on the left-hand side; and on the
right of this column deal eleven other columns, each consisting of
eight cards.

This would result in twelve columns of equal number of cards, as seen
in tableau, _but for the following conditions_: In dealing the first
eight cards, count them as you deal, from one to eight, and when any
card is suitable for a foundation, or to continue a foundation, play
it, counting the next card as the _following number_. For example, if
the card counted as No. 4 were suitable, you play it and count the next
card No. 5; and if No. 7 were likewise suitable, you would play it and
count the next (and last) card as No. 8, although, in fact, the column
would only contain six cards (Rule II). But although suitable cards are
thus played _as they turn up in the deal_, a card once placed in a
column cannot be removed. You should observe the same method in dealing
out all the twelve columns. When the tableau is complete, the lower
card of each column is available (Rule III), and may be played if
suitable; and marriages also may be made, both in ascending and
descending sequences, with available cards from each column.

When an entire column has been removed, the vacant space may be filled
by any one available card (Rule III), and cards can be placed in
sequence upon it, as on those of the other columns.

When all available cards have been played or married, the tableau is to
be taken up, beginning with the left-hand column, the cards of each
column being carefully kept in their proper order, the second column
being placed underneath the first, the third underneath the second, and
so on. Thus, when the pack is turned to re-deal, the last column will
be the uppermost, and will be the first of the new columns.

The tableau may be taken up and re-dealt twice.




[Illustration: THE CARPET.]




THE CARPET

Two Entire Packs of Cards


RULES

  I. The foundations follow suit.

 II. Cards on the carpet (_teppich_) are only available when _one of
the narrow ends is free_ (_i.e._, the top or bottom of the card). No
card is available when _both_ the narrow ends are blocked by other
cards. On the tableau crosses are placed to show the available cards
after the carpet has been dealt.

III. When a card from the carpet is played, it does not free the next
one, because its removal cannot free either of the narrow ends of that
card, yet it helps the game indirectly, and the inner cards become by
degrees available.

 IV. When the talon is formed, any available cards from the carpet can
be placed in ascending or descending sequences upon the uppermost card
of the talon, following suit.


PLAY

Withdraw from the pack four aces and four kings of different suits.
These are the foundations, and ascend and descend in the usual
sequences.

Next deal out sixty-four cards exactly in the order and pattern of
those in the tableau. This is called the carpet (_teppich_). Play from
the carpet all available cards (Rules I and II), and then deal out the
remainder, playing suitable ones or placing the unsuitable cards as a
talon. When the talon is formed, examine the carpet before you place
each card of the talon, as you have the privilege of placing cards from
the carpet on to the talon (Rules II and IV), and it is always advisable
to do this when possible, for although at the moment the cards removed
may not release others, it assists the development of the game by
diminishing the number of cards in the carpet. In dealing the cards,
suitable ones need not be played on a foundation, if by placing them on
the talon a greater number can be freed from the carpet. The success of
the game mainly depends on detaching cards from the carpet. Great care
must be taken to carry out strictly Rule II.

No card can possibly be used, either to play on a foundation or to be
placed in sequence on the talon, unless one of the narrow ends is free;
but as other cards are removed, those even in the centre become
available by a clear lane having been opened out, either horizontal or
perpendicular, leading up to one of the narrow ends of each card.

The talon may be taken up, shuffled, and re-dealt twice, but great care
must be taken in the third deal as to the placing of sequences. If one
foundation of any suit is finished, sequences from the carpet should
not be formed on the talon except in _descending_ sequence; but, of
course, if, in dealing the talon, cards should get placed in the wrong
(_ascending_) sequence, there is no remedy, but in that case the game
could not succeed.

There are two re-deals.




[Illustration: THE FISH-BONE.]




THE FISH-BONE

Two Entire Packs of Cards


RULES

 I. The foundations follow suit.

II. Kings and queens cannot find their places on the tableau until the
knaves to which they belong have been placed (_i.e._, each foundation
knave should have a king and queen of the same suit on either side, see
tableau). If, therefore, a king or queen should turn up in the deal, it
must be consigned to the talon, unless one of the knaves of the same
suit is already placed to receive it.


PLAY

Deal out six cards on the left-hand side (see tableau). These are
called the gridiron. Cards in the gridiron may marry in ascending
sequence, but _only with cards from the pack or talon_, and not with
each other. The foundation cards are the eight knaves, which descend in
sequence to aces (Rule I), and are to be played as they appear in the
deal, in a perpendicular line (see tableau). You next examine the
gridiron, and if a knave is there, play it, as also any other suitable
cards to continue the foundations, and as kings and queens appear,
place them, in accordance with Rule II. You continue to deal out the
entire pack, playing on the foundations, and marrying in ascending
sequence on the gridiron, from which you play all suitable cards,
refilling vacancies from the pack or talon. Never omit to place the
kings and queens when it can be done (Rule II). The unsuitable cards
form the talon.

If the game succeeds, the final tableau will show a line of aces, each
having a king and a queen of the same suit on either side.

The talon may be taken up and re-dealt once, observing the same rules.




[Illustration: THE CONGRESS.]




THE CONGRESS

Two Entire Packs of Cards


RULES

  I. The foundations follow suit.

 II. Cards from the rivers may marry in descending line with cards on
the helps, but not _vice versÃ¢_.

III. Cards on the help packets may marry in descending line with cards
of each other's packets, and also with cards _from_ the rivers.

 IV. The uppermost cards of the help packets are alone available until
their removal releases those beneath.

  V. Each row of cards on the rivers blocks the preceding one, but on the
removal of any card the one immediately above it is released, and
becomes available.


PLAY

Withdraw from the pack the eight aces, and place them in two columns on
the right: these are the foundations, which ascend in sequence to kings
(Rule I). Next deal four cards, and place them in a horizontal line
below, leaving plenty of room for the tableau above: these are called
the help cards. Next place at the upper end of the table a horizontal
row of eight cards: this commences what is called the "rivers," and
from the rivers you play any suitable cards on the foundations, or
marry in descending line with the help cards (Rule II), immediately
refilling the vacancies thus caused from the pack. From the helps you
now play on to the foundations, and form marriages in accordance with
Rule III. When all possible cards have been played, proceed to deal out
successive rows of eight cards on the rivers, each row partly covering
the preceding one, and temporarily blocking it (Rule V). In dealing,
you may not play a card from any row until that row is complete. After
dealing each row, pause and examine the tableau, playing and marrying
all suitable cards, and refilling vacancies, both in the rivers and
helps, with cards from the pack. In filling up vacancies in the rivers,
those in the uppermost rows must first be refilled.

After the entire pack is exhausted, the skill of the player will be
required. The four packets of help cards may now be increased to eight.
To effect this, any four available cards may be selected from the
rivers to begin the new packets, which have all the privileges of the
original ones, and should be placed in the same line. The player may
use his own discretion concerning them. He is not obliged to place the
four new helps at once, but only as they are required, and it is best
to keep one or two of the spaces free, so as to receive any card from
the rivers which, in the progress of the game, is found to block a card
much needed. If any of the packets of help cards are played off, the
vacancy may be filled by another card from the rivers, but the packets
must never exceed the number of eight.

There is no re-deal.

_Note._--In the tableau only three rows of the rivers are shown.




[Illustration: THE "LOUIS" PATIENCE.]




THE "LOUIS" PATIENCE

Two Entire Packs of Cards


RULES

 I. The foundations follow suit, as do also cards of the alphabet.

II. During the deal each circle of the alphabet absolutely blocks the
preceding one, but, when the entire deal is complete, the removal of
cards from the alphabet releases those on the circles beneath, which
now become available.


PLAY

Withdraw from the pack four aces and four kings of different suits, and
place them as in tableau. The aces ascend in sequence to kings, the
kings descend to aces (Rule I). You next deal twelve cards, forming a
square outside the foundations, each card bearing a letter: this square
is called the alphabet. Begin the deal at letter _a_, and finish it at
letter _m_, and during the deal play any suitable cards as they turn
up. You must now examine the alphabet, and play from it any suitable
cards, but observe that as each circle of the alphabet is dealt it
blocks the previous one, and cards in the lower circles cannot be used,
even if released, until the entire pack has been dealt (Rule II).

You next proceed to deal out a second circle of twelve cards, on the
top of the first one, beginning as before with _a_ and finishing with
_m_; and you continue to deal out successive circles until the pack is
exhausted, observing the same rules with regard to each circle.

When the entire pack has been dealt out, and all available cards have
been played (Rule II), you are allowed to form marriages, both in
ascending and descending line, with the available cards of the
alphabet. When no more cards can be played, or married, take up the
alphabet in succession, beginning with the letter _g_, and ending with
_f_. In this manner the order of the packets is reversed.

Then, without shuffling, deal out all the cards as before, beginning at
_a_, and finishing at _m_, observing the same rules as in the first
deal. If during this second deal a card turns up suitable alike for an
ascending or descending foundation, you can place it on either, and you
may change it from one to the other. If you prefer it, you may even lay
the card aside for the moment, playing it on whichever foundation
appears the most suitable as the game progresses.

There may be three re-deals.




[Illustration: SLY.]




SLY

Two Entire Packs of Cards


RULES

  I. The foundations follow suit.

 II. Cards dealt on to the promenade need not follow suit, and are not
necessarily placed in sequence.

III. Only the uppermost card of each packet of the promenade is
available until its removal releases the card beneath.

 IV. Cards may be played as they turn up in the deal, but a card once
placed on the promenade cannot be played until each deal of twenty
cards is complete.


PLAY

Deal out two horizontal rows, each consisting of ten cards (or you may,
if you prefer it, place four rows of five cards): this is called the
promenade.

The foundations will consist of four aces and four kings of different
suits, the aces ascending in sequence to kings, the kings descending to
aces (Rule I). During the deal, if any foundations appear, place them
at once in their allotted spaces, and also play any other suitable
cards as they turn up, refilling vacancies from the pack. When the
first deal of twenty cards is complete, examine the promenade and play
from it all suitable cards.

When no more can be played, deal out a second row of twenty cards,
always, however, playing suitable ones as they turn up in the deal.
This second row of twenty cards must be placed on the top of (_i.e._,
covering) the first row, but in any manner and on any cards of the
promenade you please. You have the option of heaping several cards on
to one packet, or of merely placing a second row on the top of the
first; but you must carefully count the cards as you place them, as
each deal of twenty cards must be complete before any can be
played--(the cards that have been played _during the deal_ do not count
among the twenty). Continue to deal out in like manner successive
rounds of twenty cards, observing the same rules, until the pack is
exhausted. Between each deal examine the promenade, and play from it
all available cards (Rule III), refilling vacancies from the pack.

The success of the game entirely depends on the skill of the player in
arranging cards on the promenade. It is advantageous to place cards in
sequence, and of the same suit, on the packets of the promenade
(although it is not required, see Rule II), as they are then ready to
be played on the foundations; but the greatest care is required to
avoid placing _two_ ascending or _two_ descending sequences of the same
suit on any packet, as one of the two would necessarily be useless,
cards not being transferable from one packet to another.

There is no re-deal.




[Illustration: THE GREAT THIRTEEN.]




THE GREAT THIRTEEN

Two Entire Packs of Cards


RULES

  I. The uppermost card of each of the ground packets is alone available
until its removal releases the card beneath.

 II. If in the development of the game a card is released in the ground
packets which is equally suitable for filling a vacancy in the numerals
(caused by the ground packets having failed to produce the desired
sum), or for the process of addition, the preference must be given to
filling the vacancy.

III. In dealing the ground packets in the first instance it is advisable
to count them in order from one to eight, in order to verify their
exact position; for in re-dealing the ground packets at the end of the
game they must be counted from one to eight, and the cards must be
dealt on to them in order, whether there are cards in each space or
whether there is a vacancy, through the packet having been played off.
The packet of cards or the vacancy are to be treated in like manner.


PLAY

This is a very difficult game and requires much attention. Among other
peculiarities it has no foundation cards.

Deal out eight packets in a horizontal line, each containing thirteen
cards dealt together: these are called ground packets. Deal them from
left to right (Rule III). If in this first deal any kings appear on the
surface, slip them underneath the packets to which each belongs; but
this may only be done in the first deal. When the eight ground packets
have been dealt, take the uppermost card of each, and place these eight
cards in a line above: this line is called the balcony. Between the
balcony and the ground packets be careful to leave space for the line
of numerals (see tableau). You now count the value of each card in the
balcony, and double it, the knave counting eleven, the queen twelve,
and the king thirteen, with which card, if the game succeeds, each of
the numeral packets will terminate. If any card on the ground packets
(Rule I) corresponds to the _doubled value_ of any card on the balcony,
you place that (ground-packet) card immediately below the balcony card,
thus beginning the packets called numerals.

_Example_ (see tableau).--On the blank cards, the numeral 6 is placed
under a three, the 4 under a two; but if in doubling, the value of any
balcony card exceeds thirteen, the excess over thirteen constitutes the
value of the card to be placed underneath.

_Example._--An ace (numerals) is placed under a seven, the double of
seven being fourteen, _which is one in excess of thirteen_. A knave
(_Bube_) is placed under a queen; the double of twelve being
twenty-four, _which is eleven in excess of thirteen_. A three under an
eight; the double of eight being sixteen, _which is three in excess of
thirteen_.

If the ground packets fail to produce suitable cards for numerals
according to the calculations just named, vacant spaces must of
necessity remain in the line of numerals, which will be filled as the
game develops (Rule II).

When all suitable cards have been transferred from the ground packets
to the numerals, the next process is that of _addition_. The value of
each card on the numeral line must be _added_ to that of the card on
the balcony immediately above it, and you must again transfer from the
ground packets to the numeral line any cards whose value corresponds
with the addition thus made, it being understood that any card taken
from the ground packet must always be placed on the numeral which is
exactly underneath the balcony card to whose value it is added.

Thus, in continuing the game by _addition_, on the numeral ace would be
placed an eight, on the _Bube_ (knave) would be placed a ten; because
in the former case one and seven make eight, in the latter, eleven
(knave) and twelve (queen) make twenty-three, _which is ten in excess
of thirteen_.

If in this stage of the game cards are released in the ground packets
suitable either for filling vacancies or for continuing the packets of
addition in the numeral line, the refilling of the vacancies must be
the first object (Rule II). When two or more cards of the ground
packets are equally suitable, select which you please (Rule I), and you
may examine the underneath cards to assist you in your choice.

When further progress is impossible, the third and last process is as
follows: Take up the first of the ground packets counting from the left
(Rule III). If No. 1 has been played off, you take No. 2, and so on.
Turn the packet face downward, and deal the cards on to the other
ground packets face upward, beginning with the packet next on your
right (if you are dealing No. 1, begin to deal on No. 2), and in doing
this follow _very accurately_ the method prescribed by Rule III. After
you have dealt as far as No. 8, begin again at No. 1, and continue
dealing (Rule III) till the packet you hold is exhausted. You then take
up the next packet, and deal it out in the same manner, beginning on
your right (if you are dealing No. 3, deal the first card on No. 4),
and continue to deal out each packet till all are exhausted, _pausing
between each deal to examine the packets and to make further
combinations, and placing on the numerals any suitable cards that may
have been produced by the fresh deal_, but the re-deal of each ground
packet must be complete before placing cards on the numerals.

If after re-dealing all the ground packets, the packets of numerals do
not all end with kings (thirteen), the game has failed.




[Illustration: CANFIELD OR KLONDIKE.]




CANFIELD OR KLONDIKE

One Entire Pack of Cards


From "The Official Rules of Card Games," copyright 1897, 1898, 1899,
1900, 1904, 1907, 1911, 1912, 1913, by The U. S. Playing Card Co.,
Cincinnati, Ohio.


PLAY

The player pays 52 counters for the pack and he is paid 5 counters for
every card he gets down in the top foundations. The cards being
shuffled and cut, the first is turned face up and laid on the table. To
the right of this card, but face down, are placed six more cards in a
row. Immediately below the left-hand card of this row that is face down
another card is placed face up, and five to the right of it face down.
Another card face up below and four to the right face down, and so on
until there are seven cards face up and twenty-eight in the layout.

Any aces showing are picked out and placed by themselves above the
layout for foundations. These aces are built on in sequence and suit up
to kings. The moment any card in the layout is uncovered by playing
away the bottom of the row, the next card in that vertical row is
turned face up. Cards in the layout are built upon in descending
sequence--K, Q, J, down to 4, 3, 2--and must alternate in color; red on
black, black on red. If there be more than one card at the bottom of a
row, all must be moved together or not at all. Spaces are filled with
kings only.

The stock is run through one card at a time and any card showing can be
used, either on the layout or foundations. When the pack has been run
through once that ends it.




[Illustration: ANNA.]




ANNA

Two Entire Packs of Cards


RULES

  I. The foundations follow suit.

 II. The uppermost card of each packet of the helps is alone available
until its removal releases the card beneath.

III. When queens appear among the helps, whether placed in the original
deal or in refilling vacancies, no other cards can be laid upon them.
They remain as single cards.


PLAY

Deal out eight cards in the shape of a capital A: these are called
helps. Whenever in the course of the deal knaves turn up, they are to
be placed so as to form the letter N (see tableau). The eight knaves
are the foundation cards, which _descend_ in sequence to kings.

When the helps (letter A) have been laid out, play from them any
suitable cards to continue the foundations (if any of these have been
already placed), refilling the vacancies from the pack or talon. You
next proceed to form marriages in _ascending_ line with cards of the
helps, except in the case of queens, on which cards must not be placed
(Rules II and III).

When no other cards can be played or married, proceed to deal out the
entire pack, playing the knaves and other suitable cards forming
marriages with cards in the helps, refilling vacancies and placing
unsuitable cards as a talon.

If the game succeeds, the final tableau shows the letter A composed of
queens, and the letter N of kings, with which the foundation cards
terminate.

The talon may be re-dealt twice.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Lady Cadogan's Illustrated Games of
Solitaire or Patience, by Adelaide Cadogan

